We are ready to do the hard
part of this portfolio, so
this is now going to be the actual
portfolio section of the homepage.
And why do I say it's the hard part,
it's actually not all that hard, but
it does look intimidating.
We have some crazy design
stuff going on here,
where we've got text overlapping
images and all kinds of other things.
But as you have seen already to this
point in the course, the methodology for
working through these
problems remains the same.
We are gonna start with
semantic meaningful markup,
then we're gonna work on styling
little bits and pieces at a time.
And eventually we're going to
get to that overlap problem,
it's easier than you think here in
the projects next Chapter Five.
This is how this is going
to look on desktop and
how this is gonna look on mobile.
So remember the phrase mobile first,
mobile first means that this is
the default styling for the page.
In other words, no media queries
involved in that particular layout.
And then we'll also have the desktop
dimension which will be inside of
media queries that will override
that default mobile styling which
occurs outside the media queries.
So, that will be something that we'll
be looking into as part of this
particular project.
So we're gonna start here then basically
building this portion of the page first,
see how this looks.
We have our text up on top, we have our
image underneath and that's where we're
going to start building that first mark it
up, and then apply all the pretty styling.
And then we'll make it look like this was
the very last part of the whole thing, all
right, so, the first place that we start
then again is with that semantic HTML.
And I've given you of course, your
starting code pen here, things that you
want to think about as you start working
through this particular problem.
So, I've given you the image and
I've given you the text that's here.
What is the most important part about
this series of, portfolio projects,
so we have a title for this whole section
called projects that I'm proud of.
Then we're gonna have a series of
the individual projects, what is
the most important part of information
here was that sort of headline,
part of that latest project?
Is that latest project is it wall of
wonder, is it the project description,
you're gonna have to think about that?
And line your headings elements
in the appropriate way.
You're gonna need to identify what it's
a paragraph, maybe you have a list of
things here like the technologies
that you were used to include them.
And then I've given you the image
as a freebie there at the end.
In code pen you have to have the Pro
version, which is the paid version,
in order to host images.
So I've done that part for you and
given you that image tag there at the end.
Take a look at this particular
problem in terms of just the HTML,
do not worry about how it looks,
don't try to group any of these elements.
Just mark this up appropriately and
I will tell you the way that I marked
it up for our project section.
All right, so we are back again,
let's take a look at
how you did with marking up the HTML for
our project section.
This is really important, as always,
we start with a semantic HTML what is the
meaning that you're trying to communicate?
And then we can always throw
in all of the dives and
all the spans that you want later.
As needed that's what we've been doing the
whole way through this is no exception.
So let's start here with our HTML,
so here's the way that I did it.
All right, so first of all, as we have
been doing the whole way through,
we started with a section
element because this is yet
another section of that homepage.
So section and then the idea of
projects we put in that link in our nav
bar to projects and so
we need something to connect it to.
So that idea projects is important,
you can call it anything you want.
But whatever the ID is here in the section
needs to match the H ref attribute for
the project's link in your navigation, so
we'll skip down to the page
there to the appropriate point.
Then I have a native H2 for
the whole section,
projects I'm proud of that is the H2 for
that whole entire section.
Then after that I've sort of grouped
everything together here in an article and
that is because this is sort of its
own little self included story.
This is something that we could syndicate
that you would be able to get meaning
from, just by looking at
what happens to be here.
So that's why I chose the article
element for doing this and
then inside of this,
we already have an H2 for
the entire section with H1
is your name and the navbar.
H2 for the whole section
is projects I'm proud of.
So we're on to H3 as our next element
remember you can make these any size
you want, but you need to make sure
that these headings are not skipped and
that they are go one after the other.
So the important part here in this
article is wall of wonder that is
the name of the project.
The latest project even though
it comes first, is descriptive,
it's not necessarily the most important
thing that's here on the page.
So I've set that to be an H4,
then we have a paragraph that has the
description of that particular project.
And the technologies used
include a mark that up as an H4,
it's part of the article, but
if the article title is the h3,
then the h4 becomes sort of
the next level information.
So the technologies that we used include,
in this case, HTML, CSS, and SVG,
that's a list of technologies.
So that's an unordered list and
then at the very end,
we have our image which is still part of
our article, and then we end our section